Add Focal copy number calls methods (#94)
AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-manuscript: content/03.methods.md

CNVkit was run on human genome reference hg38 using the optional parameters of Theta2 purity and BAF adjustment for tumor-normal pairs.
We used GISTIC [@doi:10.1186/gb-2011-12-4-r41] v.2.0.23 on the CNVkit and the consensus CNV segmentation files to generate gene-level copy number abundance (Log R Ratio) as well as chromosomal arm copy number alterations using the parameters specified in the [OpenPBTA Analysis repository](https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis/blob/master/analyses/run-gistic/scripts/run-gistic-openpbta.sh).

#### Focal Copy Number Calling

> We added the ploidy inferred via ControlFreeC to the CNVkit and consensus CNV segmentation files and used the ploidy and copy number values to define a status column with gain and loss values broadly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We added the ploidy inferred via Control-FREEC to the CNVkit and consensus CNV segmentation files and used the ploidy and copy number values to define a status column with gain and loss values broadly.
```
Noticed this one when I was adding the spell checker

Reviewer 2: You don't need to say status _column_. You do need to be specific about what "gain and loss values broadly" means.

We used bedtools coverage [@url:https://bedtools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/content/tools/coverage.html] to add cytoband status using the UCSC cytoband file [@url:http://hgdownload.cse.ucsc.edu/goldenpath/hg38/database/cytoBand.txt.gz].

> The output status call fractions were used to define dominant status at the cytoband-level.

Reviewer 2: I would be very explicit about what "output status call fraction" means.

> The weighted means of each status call fraction and band length were calculated and used to define the dominant status at the chromosome arm-level.

Reviewer 2: In addition to the URL citations here, I would cite the papers associated with these tools/resources. For example: https://github.com/arq5x/bedtools2#citation

> The weighted means of each status call fraction and band length were calculated and used to define the dominant status at the chromosome arm-level.

Reviewer 2: I find this sentence about weighted means confusing - you used the band length in the weighted mean calculation, correct?

Author: Correct, will clarify this.

A status is considered dominant if the more than half of the region was callable and the status call fraction was greater than 0.9 for that region.

> The 0.9 threshold was chosen to ensure that the dominant status fraction call is indeed significantly greater than the remaining status fraction calls in a region.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
I don't know if you need this sentence. At the very least I would remove the phrase "indeed significantly greater."

> For the determination of the most focal units, we first considered the dominant status calls at the chromosome arm-level.

Reviewer 2: Why do you need to call most focal units? Contextualize this.

> If the chromosome arm was not clearly defined as a gain or loss (and was callable) we looked to include the cytoband-level status call.

Reviewer 2: "Clearly defined" just refers to the dominant status calculation above, correct?

Author: That's correct.

> Similarly, if a cytoband was not clearly defined as a gain or loss (and was callable) we looked to include the gene-level status call.

Reviewer 2: Is there information about how we got the gene-level status call anywhere?

Author: Added some information around this in the latest commits.
